---
title: Magneto
description: "Magneto is a fictional character appearing in comic books
  published by Marvel Comics, commonly in association with the X-Men. Created by
  writer Stan Lee and artist/co-writer Jack Kirby, the character first appears
  in The X-Men #1 (cover-dated September 1963) as an adversary of the X-Men."
author: Aprameya S
date: 2022-05-18T14:58:13.813Z
tags:
  - post
  - featured
image: https://wallpaperaccess.com/full/6886343.jpg
imageAlt: magneto-img
---
<!--StartFragment-->

The primary application of his power is control over magnetism and the manipulation of both [](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Ferrous "Ferrous")ferrous and indirectly [](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Nonferrous_metal "Nonferrous metal")non-ferrous metal via metal ores they may contain. Magneto is also capable of creating powerful electromagnetic fields capable of moving and manipulating non-metallic objects, as well as levitating them (he can also do this via force fields). He can even perceive tachyons and a variety of antiparticles. *While the maximum amount of mass he can manipulate at one time is unknown, he has moved large asteroids several times and effortlessly levitated a 30,000 ton nuclear submarine filled with sea water from the depths of the ocean.*

*His powers extend into the atomic level (insofar as the electromagnetic force is responsible for chemical bonding), allowing him to manipulate chemical structures and rearrange matter, although this is often a strenuous task. He can manipulate a large number of individual objects simultaneously and has assembled complex machinery with his powers. He can also affect non-metallic and non-magnetic objects to a lesser extent. He can also generate electromagnetic pulses of great strength and generate and manipulate electromagnetic energy down to photons. He even uses the electromagnetic energy that surrounds earth to fly. He can turn invisible by warping visible light around his body.*

Another way in which Magneto frequently uses his power is the projection of force-fields which selectively block out matter and energy. These fields are strong enough to withstand the simultaneous detonation of multiple thermonuclear weapons, hence Magneto is invulnerable to most harm when surrounded by his shield and can survive in deep space thanks to it. He can also channel his powers through his own body to increase his strength and durability far beyond human limits and has a baseline reaction time 15 times faster than those of regular humans. On occasion he has altered the behavior of gravitational fields around him, which has been suggested as evidence of the existence of a unified field which he can manipulate. He has demonstrated the capacity to produce a [](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Wormhole "Wormhole")wormhole and to safely teleport himself and others via the wormhole.

<!--EndFragment-->